update docs (#3890)
status-im/nim-beacon-chain: docs/the_nimbus_book/src/trusted-node-sync.md

## Perform a trusted node sync

```admonish tip

> Make sure to replace `http://localhost:5052` in the commands below with the appropriate endpoint for you. `http://localhost:5052` is the endpoint exposed by Nimbus but this is not consistent across all clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to replace `http://localhost:5052` in the commands below with the appropriate endpoint of the trusted beacon node. `http://localhost:5052` is the default endpoint exposed by Nimbus, but this is not consistent across all clients.
```

For example, if your trusted node is a [Prysm node](https://docs.prylabs.network/docs/how-prysm-works/ethereum-public-api#performing-requests-against-a-local-prysm-node), it exposes `127.0.0.1:3500` by default. Which means you would run the commands below with `--trusted-node-url=http://127.0.0.1:3500`
```

**Mainnet**

```sh
build/nimbus_beacon_node trustedNodeSync \
  --network:mainnet \
  --data-dir=build/data/shared_mainnet_0 \
  --trusted-node-url=http://localhost:5052
```

**Prater (testnet)**

```sh
build/nimbus_beacon_node trustedNodeSync --network:prater \
 --data-dir=build/data/shared_prater_0  \
 --trusted-node-url=http://localhost:5052
```

```admonish note

> Because trusted node sync by default copies all blocks via REST,  ou may hit API limits if you are using a third-party provider. If this happens to you, you may need to use the `--backfill` option to [delay the backfill of the block history](./trusted-node-sync.md#delay-block-history-backfill).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because trusted node sync by default copies all blocks via REST, you may hit API limits if you are using a third-party provider. If this happens to you, you may need to use the `--backfill` option to [delay the backfill of the block history](./trusted-node-sync.md#delay-block-history-backfill).
```

```sh
# Obtain a state and a block from a Beacon API - these must be in SSZ format:
curl -o state.32000.ssz \
  -H 'Accept: application/octet-stream' \
  http://localhost:5052/eth/v2/debug/beacon/states/32000
curl -o block.32000.ssz \
  -H 'Accept: application/octet-stream' \
  http://localhost:5052/eth/v2/beacon/blocks/32000

# Start the beacon node using the downloaded state and block as starting point
./run-mainnet-beacon-node.sh \
  --finalized-checkpoint-block=block.32000.ssz \
  --finalized-checkpoint-state=state.32000.ssz
```

## Recreate historical state access indices

When performing checkpoint sync, the historical state data from the time before the checkpoint is not available. To recreate the indices and caches necessary for historical state access, run trusted node sync with the `--reindex` flag - this can be done on an already-synced node as well, in which case the process will simply resume where it left off:

```sh
build/nimbus_beacon_node trustedNodeSync \
  --network:mainnet \
  --data-dir=build/data/shared_mainnet_0 \

>   --reindex=true

Reviewer: Is there a way to run the re-indexing when you launch the beacon node after a quick trusted sync with disabled `backfill`? (similar to how the node will do the back-filling during its normal operation then)

Author: No - this is the only way to reindex (it takes a few hours and there's no _trivial_ way to interleave it with other work)
